# Generalized Gradients Overview

Julia based code to calculate and manipulate generalized gradients.

Generalized gradients are functions that can be used to describe magnetic or electric fields.
Currently, this repository is geared towards magnetic fields.

The notation follows that of S. Van der Schueren et al. “Magnetic Field Modelling and Symplectic Integration of Magnetic Fields on Curved Reference Frames for Improved Synchrotron Design: First Steps”
A copy of this paper is in the `papers` directory.

Equations for the vector potential are described in papers/vector-potential/vector-potential.tex
Here "the gg functions" refer to the functions `a(s)`, `b(s)`, and `bs(s)` and their derivatives.

# Programs

## src/create_gg_coef_table.jl

Creates the `table/gg_coef_table.jl` table.
The created table contains the functions needed to calculate the coefficients for the taylor map of the magnetic field and the vector potential from the gg functions.

This table do not have to be recreated unless you want to extend the derivative range. Currently derivatives up to order 12 are tabulated. To run:
```
julia src/create_gg_coef_table.jl <deriv-cut>
```
where `<deriv-cut>` is the derivative cutoff number.

## src/create_monomial_functions.jl

Creates the `table/monomial_functions.jl` table.
This table contains the coefficients needed to calculate the coefficients for the taylor map of the magnetic field and vector potential from the gg functions. 
The information in this file is the same as the `gg_coef_table.jl` table except in a form that is useful for optimization and other calculations.

This table do not have to be recreated unless you want to extend the derivative range. Currently derivatives up to order 12 are tabulated. To run:
```
julia src/create_monomial_functions.jl <deriv-cut>
```
where `<deriv-cut>` is the derivative cutoff number.

## src/gg_fit.jl

Program to calculate values for the gg functions that fit a given field table.
The program assumes that the field table is defined on an evenly spaced grid and 
the gg function values are calculated on (x, y) planes coincident with the planes of the grid.

Note: The restriction that the field table must be defined on a grid is not strictly necessary and, 
in the future, a program that does not make this assumption could be created. 
Additionally, the calculation of the gg functions at equal spacing longitudinally is not a
fundamental requirement. In fact, it may be advantageous to have unequal spacing in cases where
the field of a magnet body is fairly uniform, so that a coarse spacing is adequate, but the fringe
regions need a fine spacing.

## gg_evaluate_at(res, x::Real, y::Real, s::Real)

Function in `src/gg_eval.jl`.
Function to evaluate the field, vector potential, and vector potential derivative matrix for a
given set of gg function values.

## gg_coefficients_at(res, s::Real)

Function in `src/gg_eval.jl`
Function to take the gg function values generated by gg_fit.jl and output gg function values
for a particular s-position.
